Impromptu Zoom Meeting - February 03
VIEW RECORDING - 82 mins (No highlights): https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR

---

0:23 - Sue | Sweet Marielle May
  Sorry, Tim, we'll be here in a minute.

0:27 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Hi, hello.

0:30 - Sue | Sweet Marielle May
  Hello. Sir Tim, we'll be in a minute.

0:35 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, no problem.

0:37 - Penelope Charlotte Lim
  Hi, Sir Jonet. So we'll be having the manager's team of Chris AI on the Chris AI side. So Tim would love to be here to listen about the data center or the site.

0:50 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, see again.

0:55 - Penelope Charlotte Lim
  I think Christine will be joining as well. Thank you. Thank you. be.быling.com Hello, who's the host? Chris, AI host?  Tim is at the lobby now. Is it Richie?

3:45 - Tim
  Hello?

3:52 - JEH SMART
  Hi, good morning.

3:54 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Good morning.

3:56 - Tim
  Hello, Jonet. How are you?

3:58 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Doing good. So, but it's, it's been, you know, like, uh, January started, but it, it felt like, you know, it's been a year.

4:12 - Tim
  Okay. We've got some, uh, people from my team on the line. Uh, don't, don't, uh, you know, don't mind them.  Uh, but yeah, I would love to hear what, uh, updates we have, uh, for the city.

4:22 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay. By the way, I'm with attorney Joel, uh, here on the call.

4:28 - JEH SMART
  Hi, good morning, Tim. Good evening.

4:31 - Tim
  Hi, Joel. How are you?

4:32 - JEH SMART
  I'm good. Thank you. hope you're well, too.

4:35 - Tim
  Doing great. Doing great. Still a little jet lagged.

4:40 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  made a trip to, uh, Saudi Arabia.

4:42 - Tim
  That's a tough trip. Uh, but met with the government there and they've got a lot of AI initiatives.

4:47 - JEH SMART
  So we're working with them on a lot of projects. That's good to know.

4:54 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay. So hopefully this will be of interest to you. Um, We'll be This is the lot that we visited a while back, Fatim, within the Villar City.  Villar City, if you remember, is a 3,500-hectare development. It covers part of Metro Manila, I believe, Muntinlupa, and part of Cavite.  Correct me if I'm wrong, Joel. So they intend this to be like a new business district similar to Makati and BGC, but a lot bigger.  Because I believe Makati is about 2,900 within that range, less than 3,000 hectares, but this one is 3,500. It's located in Das Maria City, Cavite.  It's owned, as mentioned by the Villar Group. By the way, two of the Villar children are seated as senators here in the Philippines.  The father was a former senator. He ran for presidency, but lost way, way back. Okay, so what they're offering us right now is 15 hectares expandable to 30 hectares.  Pen sent me a list of questions. I believe they pertain to this StreamTech DC, an old structure that they were supposed to build but wasn't able to finish.  It's on the lower right hand of this map. Unfortunately, when we asked the Villa Group, he said that this is not available anymore.  So what they're allocating to Ayuzera are the ones in green and the one in blue. Okay, the red in between, this is a power transmission line.  So it's a no-build zone. So what they're going to do is like, they will build a park that will cut through the...  property. So each of the shaded area, Tim represents 15 hectares. So but what they're offering right now is the one shaded in green.  Okay, so as so when we went there, we went through this provincial road or national road called Paliparan Road, Molino Paliparan Road, but they are constructing or extending the Villar Avenue, which we will discuss later here, the one in yellow, to connect to the property.  Here we'll show you. The problem with these proposed properties, they're located close to the residential area. Again, we'll discuss this further.  Our is supplied by Morocco, by our group, MVP group, and the water is supplied by Tasmarina City Water District, which is to get to the residential area.  Controlled by Prime Water, a subsidiary of Villard Group. So I don't think power and water should be a problem.  Now, with regard to flooding, this area sits at an elevation range of between 115 to 135 meters above sea level.  So again, flooding is also not a problem. Now, looking into the proximity of the property from a major transportation hub like the Manila port, it's about 1RN15.  And then from the airport, less than an hour. So, because it's connected by the Metro Manila Skyway. And then from the Skyway, it's connected by South Luzon Expressway leading to MCX.  We call it MCX. MCX, it's Montenlupa, Cavite, Expressway, and then to that small road called, a small national road called Molino-Pariparan Road.  So this is a closer look of the Molino-Pariparan Road. While it is small, as I've mentioned, the Villar Group is planning to extend the Villar Avenue.  It's envisioned to be a 10-lane avenue, which will run across all the Villar properties, creating a loop, so that all of the Villar development will be interconnected.  So this property is ideal because it's close to Montenlupa, so it's very close to Metro Manila, it has good residential communities.  Now have It's like Ayala Alabang, where Jobelle lives. A very nice neighborhood. Golf course inside the village. They have PAMS, Alabang West, Portofino, also have international schools, national universities, you have leisure malls, and then of course you have golf courses nearby.  So this... Sorry?

10:26 - Tim
  No, I'm saying that's important, the golf courses.

10:29 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yeah, very important.

10:30 - Tim
  Golf courses. That's where we do our board of directors meetings.

10:35 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, okay. What a fun way to have a board meeting. Okay, so this is the property that is being offered to us.  As you can see there's a setback from the road because what they intend to do is to put up some commercial establishments here, Long Molino Pariparan Pariparan Road.  that's question. Let's And then if Ayuzera will not purchase the additional 30 hectare property, they will build commercial establishments here in a leisure mall in this particular area across because the Villar is negotiating that one of the LRT stations be constructed here in this area, which will connect to their to the proposed mall.  Yes, so this is the proposed development in that particular area. But if Ayuzera intends to purchase this in the future, then this will be part of your expansion.

11:49 - Tim
  Wait, is that the blue section?

11:52 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes, that's correct. This is the blue section. This is the green section. And yes. So, I remember when we went there, you mentioned that it could be a problem bringing the servers here because of how narrow the road is, this Molino Paliparan Road.  Now, what the Villar group intends to do, as I've mentioned, is that they extend this Villar Avenue. Actually, Joanne and I have seen this.  This Villar Avenue, they will extend it here. This is their subdivision development called Camellia Homes. I'm sure Penelope is quite familiar with the name.  And then they will extend this road to the property. This is Gobernadora Drive. They call this Gobernadora Drive. And then they will also extend this, creating a loop, going back to the Villar Avenue, because this land on the eastern portion will be developed.  tomorrow. their Eastern Commercial Business District. So all of the Villar development will be interconnected. Actually, I have a short video here just to show you.  Thank so for today. you Thank you. Okay, so this is the, so this is where the route will lead to Wajinna Pajibar.

14:52 - Tim
  Okay.

14:55 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  So, you can see, it's on goalie. you. Thank Thank you. Thank you. am updated today. You

15:03 - Tim
  Okay.

15:04 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  I can give you a copy of this. Okay.

15:09 - Tim
  All right. Is that the end of the presentation?

15:12 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  No. I'm sorry. Okay. Of course, the option for expansion, the additional 15 hectares, I mentioned that earlier. Now, with regard to the status, initially we were asked how much a user intend to purchase the land.  And then we initially mentioned 9,500 per square, which is about 24 million USD, way, way below the budget that you mentioned.  But they came back to us and told us that it would be at 150,000 per square. And we told them that, you know, we might walk away if, you know, they remain fixated with this.  Thank you. next Thank And then we explained the benefit of having an AI factory in their development because it will not only that it will invite more people because of employment, but it will also require some, you know, for them to fast track the development of their leisure parks, malls, all the commercial establishments.  So it will prime the economy of their development. So they reconsidered, came back to us at 40K per square meter.  I'm talking about pesos, 40,000 per square meters, which is about 101 million USD. But Joel thinks that we might be able to swing some way midway.  We can try at 20,000 per square, which is about 50 million USD.

17:02 - JEH SMART
  Hi, Tim. You know, I told Jonet that we can't really, we know you have a working budget, right? So as much as possible, we'd like to stick to the budget.  So I said that, you know, let's start at 20 and then all the way to your, you know, all the way to the upper limit of your budget and see if we can work, you know, work something out with them.  Like Jonet said, it's not, this is not a, you know, this is not a straight transaction in the sense that you get land in exchange for cash.  You're going to be a flagship infrastructure project that's going to be located in the heart of, what do they call, Jonet, what do they call their, this area for their, for their IT park?

17:57 - Tim
  Hold on.

17:58 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  I wrote that down. Hold on. Hold Tech Valley. They call it Tech Valley.

18:03 - JEH SMART
  Yeah, but I think they renamed it yet again. It starts with the letter A. Anyways, this is going to be their flagship project that would spur development not only in the area, but in the greater Cavite area, number one.  Number two, we also told them that since it's going to be located near their university town, having an AI factory there could lead to, you know, memoranda of agreement with various, you know, with all these universities to tie up with your AI factory.  So it's like a gift that gives on giving in so far as the villagers are concerned. So we told them that, you know, you should look at this from the perspective where they're going to  We will giving you a lot of upside, assuming we come to terms. So one of the things that we also discussed was the possibility of showcasing your AI factory in their adverts, in their promotional materials, and we said, you know, that's something that is probably possible, but we can't commit at this time.  And, you know, unless, you know, we clear with the client and until we have, you know, some sort of agreement on the pricing and how to move things forward.  So maybe, Tim, you know, we need some guidance from you on how to position the offer because they expect you to send a letter of intent.  Not only on the price but also... So on what the payment terms are, we can probably help you in terms of structuring the payment, given that there are some things that the Villar group needs to do to put them in a proper position to sell, which Jonet will also discuss, but it's nothing that we cannot take care of assuming there's a meeting of the minds.

20:30 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

20:32 - Tim
  Okay. Let me respond to that. How much time do you both have, Jonet?

20:40 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Well, until we finish.

20:44 - Tim
  Okay. Okay. So I can give you the kind of long version or short version. What's, you know, what's your appetite for time-wise today?

20:54 - JEH SMART
  Do you have 10 minutes for me to explain? 10, 15 minutes? Yeah, sure.

20:58 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Sure. I mean- It's better to understand everything so that we have a working rationale on how to do this.

21:08 - Tim
  Great. Okay. So just like any real estate project, even though we do AI, we operate very similarly to a REIT.  We get anchor tenants. We use that anchor tenant to justify the data center budget and build. And prior to uh, you know, today, or actually prior to this week, we didn't really have a strong anchor tenant for the Philippines.  We have a lot of projects that we're doing, hospitals in the Philippines, clients in in the Middle East and United States, but no like really flagship corner anchor tenants for the build.  And that's why I haven't pressed the gas. Okay. But I do have good news. So, so don't As I mentioned, I went on a trip to Saudi Arabia, and if you bear with me, I'll tell you a little bit about their project and what they're doing.  So Saudi Arabia is working on something called Vision 2030. It's an initiative to diversify, well, it's a couple of things, diversify investments away from oil and also improve the capital city, Riyadh, to be more of a, not really a tourist destination, but they just want it to be kind of, you know, similar to Dubai.

22:36 - JEH SMART
  Yes, seen as a, seen as forward, forward looking, you know, more tolerant, more liberal. That's correct. Yeah, we're familiar with, well, at least we're familiar with the Vision 2030.  In fact, they're building a 100-mile, as part of this Vision 2030, they're building a 100-mile... I don't know what you call it, but it's like space age.

23:05 - Tim
  Yeah. Yeah. You talking about the line?

23:10 - JEH SMART
  Yeah, the 100 mile line that's like a mirror, right?

23:14 - Tim
  Yeah. So they have a lot of ambition, and they're emptying the coffers, so to speak, to meet those initiatives, and the coffers are large.  All right? So they had a convention last week inviting a lot of the companies, AI companies, engineering companies, to start embarking and releasing funds for this vision.  The vision is divided into a lot of different smaller funds. I say smaller funds. They're all huge. But the fund that I met with...  Chenna, we have a... Can we share a screen? Chenna, do we have an image of that? Yeah. Do you have anything on the environmental fund?
  SCREEN SHARING: Chandana started screen sharing - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR?timestamp=1444.184904

24:04 - Chandana Hiran
  Yeah. I put together some pictures here. Can you see my screen?

24:13 - Tim
  Okay. Yeah. Just a left one.

24:15 - Chandana Hiran
  Just a left one. Yeah, that's good.

24:19 - Tim
  Okay. Can we isolate that?

24:23 - Chandana Hiran
  Yeah.

24:24 - Tim
  Okay. So this is the environmental fund and they're doing something. It may sound trivial, but it's not trivial. They want to plant trees.  And one of the issues that they have is the quality of the air in Riyadh. They sometimes they get dust storms.  The sand comes in from the desert. The wind brings it in and it dirties the road. It dirties the windows.  You get the sediment on the cars and they don't like it. It makes it makes the city look dirty and you just constantly cleaning.  train. Mm So they want to plant 10 billion trees and they brought my company and IoZera to help them with the platform.  So how do you plant 10 billion trees? Well, they don't have a workforce there. Their entire workforce is made up of Egyptians, Syrians, and as you know, Filipinos and Indians and some Pakistani, right?  They don't have engineers. They outsource them from Germany, France, wherever. They don't have AI. They need US companies to help them with this.  They don't have any engineers, any developers, any talent. Their workforce is almost zero. So they invited a whole bunch of companies, including my company, to come in and problem solve.  And after some careful consideration, they've agreed to give us the contract to build a platform that will help. people.  again We're them vet the contractors that want to be part of this tree-planting initiative, so we're building an AI platform that will monitor the requests for consideration, so contractors will respond to RFP, they're going to use our AI, our AI will scour the internet, find trade references, you know, do due diligence, and then come back with a score.  You know, is the company a shell company? Is it a Korean bot? Or is it a real company that has a history of planting trees?  Whatever it may be, our AI system will do that. AI doesn't work out of the box, you need to train it.  So we need a lot of people to review these submissions and give it a human score, and then over time, AI will learn how to score, by itself.  Okay. But it will take a year for AI to learn how to score by itself. And during that time period, we need a lot of humans in the loop.  And there's no sense in bringing people from Philippines to Saudi and doing this at Saudi. It's just better, easier just to do it in the Philippines.  Okay. There's no reason it has to be in Saudi. They want it to be in Saudi, but I'm going to convince them that there's, it's better to put the servers closer to the workforce than to bring the workforce to the server, right?  So we're working on that. Once the contractors are approved, or selected, so to speak, you know, we rise up the priority people that have submitted an application, and then humans will approve that.  And next, the disbursements need to start. So they needed a way to securely send wires from the investment fund to the contractors, including  The are quite hard to track. As you know, with the government in Philippines, all governments have trouble tracking milestones with the flood control project that you guys had and so on and so forth.  So in the United States, we're developing a system for our U.S. government to track government disbursements based on actual AI tracking systems.  So they have contracts with NVIDIA and whatever to do satellite tracking of canopy to see, you know, how much vegetation has grown.  But the thing is with these trees, there's going to be a combination of seed planting, like physical seeds, which you cannot see from outer space.  And also see, you know, the small trees, the young trees, which you cannot, also cannot see from outer space.  And there's no, no... Fathom Tractor is going to wait five years for the tree to show up on satellite images, so there needs to be a way to track on the ground.  So we propose a solution for computer vision, which is outdoor cameras that have low resolution but using NVIDIA Jetson to track these activities that are on the ground.  How many people showed up? Are people kind of working the field? And then once the trees are planted, if they're young, you still can't see them from satellites, so now you need drones to fly over and do patrol and then report back to the government.  And then our AI system will communicate with the drone, and if we see progress, if the tree grows one foot, one meter, whatever it may be, then we release funds.  Okay? And we have a verbal agreement right now. We're working on the contract. We have a verbal agreement to move forward with this entire system, and we want to bring this...  The project is about $15 billion per year for the foreseeable future. So it qualifies as an anchor tenant and it's, you know, it's going to allow me to say yes to your project.  Okay. Regarding the price, 15, well, I got, I'll convert it to pesos, guess. So 3 billion pesos per Is okay.  Right. And is that the middle ground that you mentioned?

30:35 - JEH SMART
  Yeah. Something like that.

30:37 - Tim
  Okay.

30:38 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

30:39 - Tim
  Six billion, you know, feels like to me is giving me kind of retail vibe, you know, or, or, you know, uh, residential, uh, it's not industrial.
  SCREEN SHARING: Metro started screen sharing - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR?timestamp=1851.840599  Okay. So, so I think that's too much. So, so somewhere in between, yeah, great, great. So somewhere in between the low to mid.  said." What Um, for this, um, yeah, so somewhere between 25 million and 50 million USD sounds about right. Um, but I wouldn't say no if we had to be towards the mid.

31:14 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

31:15 - Tim
  Um, the total investment is going to be about a billion dollars. Um, and we, we can talk about the financial, um, incentives, um, or the benefits for, for their company because we're probably going to be hiring, does it, uh, are you here?  How many contractors does, does, does our estimation say?

31:44 - Chandana Hiran
  Um, so it says about 150 to 200 humans in the loop, um, for AI training, satellite review, and program ops, and then 12 to 25 contracted organizations, um, so for AI or platform specialists.

31:59 - Tim
  All qaash, Okay, so 200 people directly, you know, 200 jobs directly for reviewing satellite images, I would guess another 200 to review the application process and make sure the AI's got it right, verifying that the company is real, verifying that it's, you know, like I said, not a North Korean, you know, bot, making sure that the, no one's reused a company name.  To make it to, you know, to make an application. All of that needs human verification. So we'll need to hire for that.  So another 200. So that's 400. And then maybe another 100 engineers. So we're talking about 500 people will be able to hire, and I would assume the residential property price will go up, since we're going to have, you know, 400 AI specialists and about 100 managers.  Uh, so they're going to benefit from all of that. Okay. So it's not just a data center. Okay. So, you know, that's kind of, um, you know, the first thing I'd like to discuss.  The second thing I'd like to discuss is the more land we can get, the better. Uh, and I'll tell you why.  Um, when we build a data center, we're investing in bringing the power, the transmission lines, the water, the fiber, all of that to the data center.  And, and, and it's costing us a lot of money, the CapEx involved. And what we like to do, um, is also combine what we're doing with Smart Industrial Park.  Um, Smart Industrial Park is allowing companies who need compute, uh, high tech companies, high value tenants, um, who need compute, but they don't want the CapEx hit in the beginning.  So being next to. to. A AI data center allows them to turn what CapEx they would normally need to spend to build an AI, you know, operation, to OpEx.  And so some of the tenants you may, you know, that may be compatible are anyone using robotics, anyone needing AI for warehousing, manufacturing, anything like that.  They would be a taker for the land around us, OK, because having a direct connection to AI for low latency compute is a huge advantage.  So if there's any companies that are coming to the Philippines or interested in any kind of AI automation, we would love to have them nearby us so they can be a client.  And they would love to be nearby us to, like I said, convert their CapEx so they don't have to pay for servers and power and infrastructure.  They can just pay us a monthly fee and they can get compute from us. And then we have accessory clients outside of our anchor tenant.  So having more land is something that would be interesting to us. Having said that, we're a technology company. We don't want to pretend to be a real estate company.  We want to stay in our lane. It's better if we, you know, co-develop this with someone who's a bit more savvy.  You know, right now we're kind of working with David Lechu. But if you think that you can find a better kind of partner for this smart, you know, smart industrial park concept, that's great.  If we don't have enough land to build a smart industrial park, that's fine. But we're just leaving opportunity on the table.  And what do we need? And what do we need? Usually it's about two hundred acres. I don't know how many hectares that is.  What is it, about seventy-five hectares or something? I go by acres, sorry.

36:15 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  It's about eighty hectares.

36:18 - Tim
  Eighty hectares, okay. So, you know, minimum eighty hectares gives us enough land to say, okay, now we're a smart industrial park.  I guess you can go lower, you know, and just get a few less tenants, but it gives us about, you know, ten to twelve decent sized lots that you can sell.  And then the price per square foot on something like that goes up tremendously when you have powered land that is in proximity to a data center.

36:48 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  It doubles or triples the price. Okay.

36:51 - Tim
  Yeah, how do we know that? Companies like Apple, Foxconn, they're going to places where there's powered land, roads built out.  Out, leveled, cleared, ready to plug in, and that land is very, very valuable.

37:06 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay. Yeah. So does that mean that, are we targeting the whole AT hectares, or are we going to, say, negotiate and get these 30 first, and then eventually that will lead up to the AT?

37:25 - Tim
  So I guess the right play is...

37:27 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  What's our timeline? Okay.

37:29 - Tim
  So I guess the right play is, and what we're doing here in Houston, is to lock up what we need for the data center and get first right of refusal on the rest of the land, just so we're not out of pockets for deposits and limitations.  Chenna, do we have any, can we show a video of, of our kind of combined idea for Houston?

37:54 - Chandana Hiran
  Oh, I should...

37:56 - Tim
  Doucher Park? Okay. they're Yeah.

37:59 - Chandana Hiran
  They

38:04 - Tim
  So this is an Investor Explainer video that we made for one of our investors.

38:10 - Chandana Hiran
  I'll play it.

38:15 - Tim
  A shift is underway. As AI reshapes the world, the infrastructure behind it must rise to meet the moment. Data centers are adapting from air cooling to liquid cooling, and from fixed leasing to AI delivered as a search.  This is the transition IO-Zera is building for. IO-Zera is advancing a distributed AI infrastructure platform anchored in Houston, Texas.  The platform consists of two proposed components. First, Roark, an operating data center intended to provide near-term AI-ready compute capacity.  It's currently 4.5 megawatts to be upgraded to 10 megawatts for inference and light AI training. Second, Eureka Park. A proposed smart industrial campus currently in the planning stage designed as a long-term expansion runway toward 300 megawatts.  The idea is to build AI infrastructure in phases, bringing compute online efficiently while creating scalable capacity over time as demand grows.  AI data centers are no longer just buildings. They require orchestration across power, hardware, and workloads. That is where IOZera's AI as a service model comes in.  The next part of the video explains how it works. AI data centers, using AI support for . About this new industry called AI factories and artificial intelligence.  And obviously, we're at the beginning of a new industrial revolution. And this industry is going to be producing intelligence.  And what it takes is energy, and of course, a lot of great computer science and large computing systems. .  . And also want to have more engagement with the government or also.

40:55 - Chandana Hiran
  Yep.

40:56 - Tim
  Joel, and have you seen this video already?

41:00 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

41:01 - Tim
  Yes. Okay. And Joel has right.

41:04 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

41:05 - JEH SMART
  Tim, since you mentioned, since you mentioned, you know, factories, I think one of the requests also of the villiard is to show them exactly how, how your offices slash factories slash data centers will look like.

41:24 - Tim
  Okay. Chandana, do you have a picture of me in an AI lab in Vietnam?

41:31 - Chandana Hiran
  Uh, yes. I look for it.

41:36 - JEH SMART
  Because, uh, the expect, the expectation of the landowner is that, um, it will not look like, you know, an industrial, an industrial factory.

41:52 - Tim
  Uh, it's not going to look like, you know, a palace, but, uh, it's, it's got four walls, no windows.  nine, I have tell you, haven't I'll try to bring up some pictures for the interior, and then we'll go to the exterior.
  SCREEN SHARING: Chandana started screen sharing - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR?timestamp=2523.98647  Okay, so this is an example of humans in a loop. These are people in front of a computer, that's me in Vietnam, and we just build AI labs and hire people to look at video or look at images and make annotations or comments.  or adjust what AI is outputting in front of their computers. On the left is just an example of a healthcare client.  Can you go to the left? For dental. And we train the people to use the different shapes and colors.  In this example, we're asking them to draw a circle around the sinus, to draw a box, a bounding box, where the .  Patients missing teeth and then to draw, you know, purple around a tooth so the AI can see angulation of the tooth to see if it's straight or not.  And so this is kind of the interior. I think we're going to have nicer facilities for the interior. The exterior, it's going to look like any other data center on the exterior.  We can try to make it look a little bit nicer, but let's see here. Do we have a flyover for Eureka Park?

43:33 - Chandana Hiran
  A flyover?

43:35 - Tim
  Yeah, like an overview or the exterior. I think it's actually, I think it's in the video. Can we, the rendering for Gen V?  Somewhere it's in there.

43:48 - Chandana Hiran
  Yes. I can share the video just for that as well.

43:51 - Tim
  Yeah, just share the video and then I'll tell you where to jump to.

43:58 - Chandana Hiran
  A shift is
  SCREEN SHARING: Chandana started screen sharing - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR?timestamp=2643.466741

44:07 - Tim
  And, and we'll, we'll share this video that you can send to Vilyar. keep going.

44:13 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, thank you.

44:16 - Tim
  Uh, second, Eureka Park. That's in the middle. Scroll. Yeah, you're have to use a, grab the, yeah, keep going.  Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. going. Keep going. okay right there uh so that's the rendering of our  AI lab, and then on the left of that is the data center. But obviously the exterior, we could spruce it up a little bit, but it's one story and white, stark, sterile building.  Okay, let's go to the right. I think at the end, you'll have an overview towards the end. But, you know, certainly people inside most data center projects they've probably looked at are not hiring any people or humans in the loop.  That is definitely one of the main differences. And then here's the overview. Day and tomorrow. Yeah. and Day tomorrow.  and tomorrow. and and tomorrow. Day tomorrow. Day and tomorrow. Day tomorrow. and tomorrow. and Day So it's not gonna be eye candy, but I definitely wanna warn them of that.  We're gonna have solar panels. We're gonna have big parking lot for people to come. We're gonna have white buildings that have no windows.  You can't have windows in data centers. So if they have a problem with that, then we had to look for another place.  But a data center is a data center. I think ours would be just a little bit nicer. We have a little more budget than other people did in the past for cloud.  We won't have these kind of... If you look at an Amazon Web Services data center, they have this security on the outside, barbed wire.  They have these spikes in the fence so you can't jump over it. It looks like a prison. A lot of data centers look like that.  We don't need to look like that because we're not storing mission critical data. We're not storing, you know... aту porous so...  That's at Financial information that is stored in plain text. So our security, our exterior security will not be ugly.  Can we see Amazon data center? Exterior security, maybe bring it up somewhere. Those are super ugly. As you can see, we're not doing any barbed wire or anything like that.  It's not showing me, yeah, maybe, I don't know, I'll pick one of these. Anyway, when you draw it, there's a substation there, which is an eyesore, it's ugly, they're not pretty.  We can try to make it look a little bit better, and we'll put the substation in the back facing away the street, and so on and so forth, but when you drive up to an Amazon data center, you're met with barbed wire and this harsh prison-like feel, which I don't want and I don't like, but that's...

48:22 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  think that's what they're concerned about. Yeah, I think that's what they're concerned about.

48:26 - Tim
  Yeah, so I can work with them, you know, we can work with the designers. We don't want it to look like a prison either.  No, no one wants to come work at a prison, you know, so that's something we can compromise on, but the look of it is never going to be, you know, like, you know, something, you know, aesthetically pleasing.

48:51 - JEH SMART
  It's really gonna be fancy like a regular office building.

48:56 - Tim
  Yeah. I mean, the way the Saudis do it, they make all their buildings. They... Their including their government buildings, look like masterpieces, but they've got all the budget in the world.

49:05 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yeah.

49:08 - Tim
  But for this, I don't think we're going to have the budget to really do 30% of the budget on the exterior, which is what these Saudi companies do.  The cost of build is almost the cost for the exterior. Anyway, you know, let's be upfront and honest and let them know what we are and what we're not.  We're certainly going to hire a lot of people. We're certainly going to bring economic activity to the area. The businesses in the area are going to get value.  You're going to be able to raise the rent for these businesses doing, you know, doing services, restaurants, you know, cleaning, whatever it may be.  All of those businesses are going to see an uplift in economic activity. So, and then the land around it.  You know, we want first right of refusal somehow, some sort of contract at a certain rate, so if we do land a Pegatron, you know, or, you know, a BYD or someone doing something, then we want to be able to lease them that land and contract with them to the data center.

50:16 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, yeah. You know, BYD is a hit here. You can see BYD everywhere.

50:22 - Tim
  Yeah.

50:23 - JEH SMART
  Tim, sorry. Will there be a group of expats that will be required to, or that will be deployed in the factory here, or is it just going to be, you know, Filipinos that will be trained online by experienced staff?

50:50 - Tim
  Yeah, for sure we'll need expats. think one to 20 ratio would be okay in the beginning. And then eventually, less.  We want all the people to be... We Filipinos eventually, even the managers. That would be our goal.

51:05 - JEH SMART
  Okay, because that's also one of the questions that they asked.

51:10 - Tim
  Yeah, our goal is certainly we don't want to use expats. We want to use Filipinos. They need training. They need upskilling.  But the Filipino workforce is strong. They just need training. When I went to Saudi Arabia, I was saddened because the middle management people or the people in the office buildings were not Filipino.  But all the service people, all the people that were working low-end jobs were Filipino. No one gave them the training.  We are happy to provide training and uplift the population. And whatever jobs that are being lost to BPO, back office, call center, whatever it may be, we want to train them on AI.  And then... Serve clients like Saudis, serve clients where they don't have a workforce to do this work. That's my vision for the Philippines.  Obviously, I have four or five years experience working with the workforce. It's feasible. You'll see my team here. They're 90 something percent Filipino.  I'm happy and I'm proud to be partnered with them. So I would want to continue that.

52:24 - JEH SMART
  Okay. Thank you, Tim. We'll certainly relay that to the Villars. Jonet, what they are asking for is a letter of intent from Tim.  So, Tim, what's your timeline to draft a letter of intent that we can discuss internally before you formally send it to the Villars.

52:56 - Tim
  So I'm not someone who will be open to letters Until all the, you know, primary terms are agreed to, the land size, the price, you know, subsidies from the government, understanding of, you know, capital equipment subsidies and tax relief.  I need all of that in place. I also need a strong partner or maybe two partners in the Philippines willing to put some skin in the game with me so I can get some political protection, right?  So, so what, you know, what our major risk is sometimes when we do big data center projects, we have a deal with the government, and then boom, they're no longer part of the government.  The first time that I went to the Philippines, I met with someone named Ivan Uy. He was the...

53:43 - JEH SMART
  Yeah, the DICT, but he spent most of his time cutting deals for himself and his daughter, that's why he's out.

53:52 - Tim
  Well, I, he was cutting a deal with me.

53:55 - JEH SMART
  Exactly.

53:56 - Tim
  And now he's out and now I don't have a deal with anyone. Okay. So, so, um, and that's the risk that we run.  Uh, the same thing happened to me in Morocco. We had two, you know, two ministers that were cutting deals and then they cut to, you know, they were too favorable with the deals they cut for themselves.  And they wanted us to hire this company, that company, which is the cousin and the sister of, of whatever.  And I agreed to all of that. Okay. But now the deal, you know, the deal changes when someone new comes along, they have a different cousin and a different sister.

54:29 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  So, uh, you know, there's a lot of money here.

54:32 - Tim
  There's concrete, there, there's, there's, uh, fiber, there's all, there's roads, there's, there's infrastructure, waterway, the contracts are going to be huge.  Right. Um, and I'm okay with, with letting people make money, but I need to understand, is there going to be, you know, extortion?  Is there going to be, you know, hey, we're not going to deliver, you know, or, or, or whatever it may be.  So I need political protection and I need companies that have, a history and track. I of completing projects. I cannot do it myself.

55:04 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  So that's the kind of thing that I need to do. When you say company team, are you looking for a real estate partner?

55:14 - Tim
  Yeah. So I can tell you what Temasek did in Singapore. Temasek wanted to come to the Philippines. They partnered with Ayala.  And they partnered with STT. Well, STT is funded by Temasek. And also Globe. And they formed a JV. And that gave Temasek the confidence that the project could be delivered.  Between Globe and Ayala, they had a lot of comfort. So this kind of three-way JV is a good model for how FDI companies like myself can get, you know, comfortable coming in.  Yeah. Right. Um, so, so I don't know if there's a Globe or IEL, obviously they're, they're taken, um, with, with their project with STT, but is there someone comparable?  I don't know if the BLR group is, is, is interested or, or they have a, uh, you know, a conglomerate that, that is interested in, in this data center.  Um, you know, we can send financials and whatever, but, you know, we don't want to do this alone. Uh, I don't even think it's feasible to do this alone.  We, we don't understand the political net landscape. Uh, we need to political, political protection, and we can't have one politician, you know, hold us up.

56:37 - JEH SMART
  Yeah, that's, uh, that's a reasonable ask and, uh, good move. It's a prudent move.

56:45 - Tim
  Right, right. And, and we follow Tamasek, whatever they do in the Philippines, we say, okay, if, if, cause they're able to build buildings quickly.  Um, and I, I know the, the CEO of Globe is no longer there. Um, All I his name.

57:01 - JEH SMART
  Ernest.

57:02 - Tim
  Ernest. Ernest Ku. Yeah. I know Ernest Ku isn't there. I don't know if the new owner is interested in another, I think it'd be a conflict of interest with STT.  And so there's a conflict there. And actually there's a conflict because we were going to proof of concept with STT.  We brought their engineers to Taiwan to teach them liquid cooling. And then we realized, hey, we may just jump the proof of concept phase and go directly to a build.  And in that case would be competitors with STT. So, you know, I guess we need some guidance. Right. But I can tell you that if you say, Tim, I want you to come in here, do this all your own.  I don't even know if the laws allow me to do that. Bringing in an investor group and do this whole wholly owned by an FDI.  I know the constitution in the Philippines don't even doesn't even allow that.

57:59 - JEH SMART
  that. that. Let's Let's

58:00 - Tim
  We'd have to do some crazy lease back and some other company owns it and we'd rather not do that.  We'd rather do a JV and do this straight, give a piece of the pie to another company. They will need skin in the game, but it's going to be super favorable.  We'll give them first lien, we'll give them first right of, you know, access to the cash flows, first in, first out.  There's a lot of things that we can do to make them comfortable if they're not familiar with the data center industry, but we do need help.

58:30 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay. In case we find a good partner for you, would you be willing to give them the majority ownership?

58:39 - Tim
  We would. I think we would have to in some cases. Yeah. And, and there's ways that we can own the business on top of the property.  And, you know, we wouldn't be greedy and say, okay, you know, if you calculate, so, our, you know, just one contract with us.  It's 1% of $15 billion on an annual basis that, you know, that's enough cash flow to justify the bill just with that one contract, but we're going to have hundreds of contracts, right?  So if we can partner with them, maybe pay them a lease based on the cash flows, so where IRR is great for them, 20%, 30%, 40% IRR, whatever they need.  And then we own the business technology, maybe, or something like that. Unless they want to invest in the business as well, we can't give them equity in what we're doing.  We have to give them just partnership in the JV. I guess we'd have to figure it out.

59:46 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

59:47 - Tim
  But certainly there's enough there, there's enough meat on the bone to make anyone happy. I don't know what the IRR tolerance right now with, with Philippine projects.  Um, but I, I, I imagine. Imagine data center is superior to anything that they're getting, investing in Philippine projects.  So, yeah, so we're open to making them a majority owner, certainly in the Philippines. We can share the revenue on the tech, we can share the revenue on the upside, even share the revenue on the IP.  There's going to be a lot of IP created on Philippine soil. You know, if we create IP in the Philippines, I want the Philippines to own it.  It doesn't have to be U.S. So I'm open to anything. I'm open to all options.

1:00:37 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:00:41 - Tim
  All right. But I know there's only a certain amount of companies left that are not in data center in Philippines.

1:00:48 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  So I don't know, I don't know if there's anyone left, conglomerate wise, that, that could, that could, uh, we're trying to talking to, uh, a few of them.  We'll try. We'll try.

1:01:02 - Tim
  Okay. Yeah. I think the constitution says like a straight up ownership has to be 60-40 right now, right?

1:01:09 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

1:01:10 - Tim
  Yeah.

1:01:11 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

1:01:12 - Tim
  Yeah.

1:01:13 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  But actually our idea is that, you know, for example, if you enter just Ayuzera alone, it can be Ayuzera 40% at the asset company, but there should be another company owning the operations.

1:01:30 - Tim
  Yeah. Yeah. And then, you know, they said, you know, you can do a long-term lease and this and that, you know, it starts to become unattractive for our investors if you, if you've, if you position it that way.  Right. Yes. And, and I'm certainly open to whatever split that we do. Uh, I'm open to whatever they put in, they can get first out, um, plus 20%.  And then the split kicks in.

1:01:58 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:01:59 - Tim
  Okay. So. So if it's 60-40 split, and they want to get their money out first, we'll do 100% plus another 20%, and then the split kicks in to make it a little more palatable.

1:02:13 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:02:15 - Tim
  And they can have first, you know, first lien on the property, whatever the case may be. So, you know, we definitely want to partner with people, and I understand that there's going to be some apprehension about AI, data center, and all of that, so willing to be flexible on the cash flows, because my investors, who we come in there with, could tolerate making money on the platform revenues and IP.  And then the data center revenues, we could wait till later, you know, so that everyone's happy.

1:02:50 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:02:55 - Tim
  Okay. Okay. And then the last thing I'll say is... Um, you know, the data centers do generate, uh, uh, well, how do I say this?  Health concerns. Um, there's, there's something called white noise, which is this low level frequency.

1:03:17 - JEH SMART
  Yes.

1:03:18 - Tim
  Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So we'll need some politicians. Um, you know, we'll get, we'll get the studies, but, you know, I've already done the studies, um, you know, 100 to 200 meters doesn't make me comfortable.  Um, anything past 500 meters, a thousand meters, I'm comfortable that no one would be affected by the, by the noise.
  SCREEN SHARING: Metro started screen sharing - WATCH: https://fathom.video/share/LkrryPSbUbVjqie3YAqUyxcSsiVxkiRR?timestamp=3820.662904  Um, we use water cooling instead of fans for most of the GPUs. Um, so if people look at old news and say, oh, there's a data, AWS data center and, and people had health problems.  Well, it's similar health problems to trend. Transmission lines that people report, okay? And substations. And people live near transmission lines all the time.

1:04:07 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes.

1:04:08 - Tim
  Oh, here?

1:04:09 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Actually, here in the Philippines, there's a Philippine noise standards. So as long as you comply, then you're legally allowed to operate.

1:04:20 - Tim
  Oh, okay. Okay.

1:04:22 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yeah.

1:04:24 - Tim
  I'm not sure how loud.

1:04:26 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  So it's measured by decibels.

1:04:29 - Tim
  Yeah. So to be honest with you, just to let you know, the decibel thing doesn't work. Okay. Even if the decibels are low, there is a health concern.

1:04:39 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Oh, okay.

1:04:39 - Tim
  And the solution is shielding within the walls, which we will do. The older data centers do not have those sound shielding.  We will have that. So that's number one. Number two, the ratio of fan-cooled servers to liquid-cooled. If you can get that to around 20%, 30% liquid-cooled.  Uh, And you use those on the exterior of the building and use the air cooled on the interior of the building, the levels of magnitude go down dramatically.

1:05:11 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay, but what's the minimum setback that you need from the fence? Assuming that...

1:05:18 - Tim
  100 meters is the absolute minimum. Yeah, yeah. Are we gonna have that there or no?

1:05:24 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  I think we, yeah, I think you can have it.

1:05:28 - JEH SMART
  Tim, what about the water requirement for your liquid cooling systems?

1:05:36 - Tim
  Yeah, so we use dielectric fluid, which is, it's like an oil that takes away heat. We call it cooling, but really it's taking away heat.  We transfer heat from one place to another. Okay. we do that with this fluid. However, the air cooling that needs to happen, so obviously if it's 100 degrees outside...  The interior needs to be 80 degrees. We don't cool it to 70 degrees like traditional data centers. We cool it to about 80 degrees to avoid condensation.  So, but even we need to be able to cool 20 degrees, and that requires water, okay? So the interior air needs to be cooled, and that does require water, and we use a significant amount of water to do that cooling.  So that has to be part of the equation as well. Okay. even though we're cooling something else with the liquid, not everything can be cooled with liquid.  You still need air for some of it. Okay. operations. Yeah.

1:06:43 - JEH SMART
  So you mentioned the significant amount of, the water requirement is going to be significant. Do you have any, you know, ballpark figures, you know, we'll not hold you to it, but at least we'll have an idea.

1:06:55 - Tim
  Yeah. We've got 5 million liters per day per, per 100 megawatts. ones. Oh, Okay. Okay. I We're So So we have to talk to Boralco to see what they can deliver.  I think verbally, we discussed 100 megawatts shouldn't be a problem. So that means 500, 5 million liters per day, which no politician is going to smile about.

1:07:17 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  500 liters per day.

1:07:18 - JEH SMART
  5 million liters per day. 5 mld.

1:07:21 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  That's .5. That's .5. No, 500 liters is 500 liters per day.

1:07:31 - JEH SMART
  500 million liters.

1:07:33 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  5 million liters per day.

1:07:36 - JEH SMART
  Okay, 5 mld per megawatt. No, 5 mld, bro, per 100 megawatts.

1:07:43 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Ah, okay. That's manageable. 5 mld megawatt. Per 100 megawatts. Okay. Okay. Yeah, that's manageable.

1:08:03 - Tim
  That's manageable?

1:08:06 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes. 5 million liters per day per 100 megawatts, just to clarify. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's manageable.

1:08:16 - Tim
  Okay.

1:08:17 - JEH SMART
  So we'll probably, we have our homework, Tim, especially regarding looking for a suitable JV partner for you guys, and then we'll also touch base again with the Villars.  But is my impression correct that we need to get a JV partner in before we commit to any of these things?

1:08:50 - Tim
  I think so.

1:08:52 - JEH SMART
  Okay.

1:08:53 - Tim
  Um, it would be, I think, irresponsible for me to say we can move move forward without a JV partner because there's no investor that that I'm partnered with right now that that would be comfortable with the political landscape, especially after the flood, you know, flood problem, flood control, you know, problem and and other things and and most of the chatter that I hear from investors is, oh, aren't there typhoons that roll through there or this or that?  So so so we can partner with someone that's comfortable, that's local, and they're willing to put skin in the game, then then it's easier for me to finalize the budgets and the funding.  So I'm just going to call it what it is. But if no one is from the Philippines is saying yes to this, it's going to be a little bit of a uphill battle, even though even with, you know, an anchor client that we just secured, it was just last week.

1:09:55 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:09:56 - JEH SMART
  Okay.

1:09:57 - Tim
  Okay.

1:09:58 - JEH SMART
  Yeah. Sorry. Sorry, for this, for the potential JV partner, what do you expect that partner to bring? Do you just want, do you want cash?  Do you want a combination of cash and influence or just influence? You know, open doors, be your security blanket, or do you also expect the JV partner not only to provide, not only to open doors and give you the security blanket, but also sell out cash?

1:10:32 - Tim
  Yeah, the security blanket is priority one. Um, shelling out cash adds to that security blanket. Uh, it doesn't have to be the main driver.  Uh, but we can, we can be, you know, and it really depends on, you know, it's just coincidence that, that you called this meeting because I just got back.  Um, but if, if I can say to, um, as, as I make, as I do my .. . Roach show for the for this project, um, I do want to reach out to other investors, right?  And, and maybe, you know, since we're doing the software project with Saudi, um, is vision, you know, 2030, are they interested in the Philippines?  So, so it helps me make my case. Um, I didn't ask the folks, um, that are managing the other funds for, for 2030, are they interested in the Philippines?  But they're investing in everywhere, Europe, U.S., so on and so forth. So, uh, you know, I, think I'm going to try to make a case for the Philippines, for them to build a data center, uh, and, and be an investor.  And if that's the case, then, then we won't need cash. Right? We'll just need, you know, security blanket.

1:11:42 - JEH SMART
  Okay. For now, assuming, uh, you don't have, uh, you know, assuming it takes time for you to, to find a suitable partner with a financial muscle, what is the minimum, uh, minimum, uh, uh,  Uh, threshold that you're looking at for a local JV partner, how much cash do you expect this, uh, JV partner to infuse?

1:12:09 - Tim
  Okay, so we can build here with our distributed AI data center model at about six million per megawatt. Um, I don't know what it's going to cost in the Philippines.  I know that the, the, the, last data center that STT built in Fairview, uh, was around 10 million. Per megawatt, which they overbuild, um, redundancy wise, so they can attract hyperscale clients.  I think TikTok, um, you know, ByteDance is one of their clients. think Alibaba, Tencent is one of their clients.  So they have to build to a certain level. We don't have to build to that level. Um, but, but six million per, per, uh, per megawatt, I think is reasonable.  If we have to pay kickbacks and bribes and this and that, then let's call it 7 million. Um, and then, uh.  Obviously, I'm sure the people on your side will want something out of this in the beginning. That's fine. That's how business is, and you and Jonet are happy to make your proposal for that.  But let's say it's $7 million per megawatt. Now that's a $700 million project. Whatever piece of that they want, 10%, 20%, it doesn't have to be straight equity where to get 10%, you need $70 million.  We can work with the numbers. We the project budget is going to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.  So $10 million or $50 million is not really going to move the needle that much. So it has to be a big enough company to write a big check.

1:13:47 - JEH SMART
  Okay. So probably at least $100 million USD or $150 million USD?

1:13:54 - Tim
  Yeah, something like that.

1:13:56 - JEH SMART
  Yeah. Okay.

1:13:58 - Tim
  then, like I said, I'll lock up the cash flows in a lockbox so that they can get their $100 million back as fast as possible.  I'm willing to do that and make it really, really favorable for them so they'll get first lien on the equipment because we're putting in equipment as well.  There's a lot of things I can do to make their equity investment interests or do a convertible note, whatever it may be.

1:14:24 - JEH SMART
  Yeah.

1:14:25 - Tim
  Yeah. And we can do an SVP. We can do all kinds of things to make them comfortable. But yeah, they do have to put some skin in the game and that's going to help me out a lot.

1:14:36 - JEH SMART
  Okay. All right. We will have a few, I have a few names in mind. I just need to check the interest level and I suppose Jonet also has a few names in mind too.

1:14:52 - Tim
  Are there companies right now in Philippines that can stroke checks for $100 million US or is that few and far between?

1:14:59 - JEH SMART
  No. sure there's makes find section we'll

1:16:02 - Tim
  And then Christine and Maria, coordinate with Chandana for any documents they need, any financials, any modeling, so they can pitch to any contacts that they have.  Okay. But, you know, in short, the land, out of all the land that I've seen, and Penn can attest, we've seen a lot of land in Philippines.  That's the best land that I've seen. Um, we also want to take over that pad that's currently there for StreamTech, um, so that we can get, you know, up and running quicker, even if it's a small footprint and something.  Okay. So, so we want to do that and then, and then, uh, take as much land as possible. We only need about, you know, 15 hectares to, for our data center.  Um, but, you know, like I said, we bring value all around. the Bref. supposed to commonality Yep. You know, within a mile radius.  So whatever land that we can get rights to without coming out of pocket will be better just in case we land a client and they say, oh, we need, we have a client that has a client that needs AI manufacturing or everyone's moving to automation now.  And now is the right time for US companies. They're looking to get out of China, obviously, for tariffs and geopolitical issues.  And they're looking at Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, sometimes Thailand. And not many look at, not many are looking at Philippines.  I don't know why, right? I guess they're, they're not, they're worried about the weather. I don't know.

1:17:47 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Or maybe the corruption issues.

1:17:50 - Tim
  Maybe the corruption, flood control, dams not built. I don't know. Okay. But, you know, that's definitely something that we can kind of bring up and say, hey, We're doing.  AI data center here, we've got some really good land, and you never know, right? All we know is companies have to leave China.  And they were in a freeze pattern because they didn't know what was really happening with the tariffs. Is it going to be resolved, not be resolved?  And I think now, especially Q4 earnings meetings, from what I heard, they are coming to the conclusion that, no, it's not going to be resolved with China.  We and China, and we need to get out. So now is a really good window of opportunity to introduce Philippines for high-tech industrial park.  And, you know, why not? All right?

1:18:44 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Okay.

1:18:44 - JEH SMART
  Okay. So we'll just coordinate them and be in touch?

1:18:52 - Tim
  Yeah, let's communicate in this WhatsApp group that Cristine will create.

1:18:56 - JEH SMART
  Okay.

1:18:57 - Tim
  Any information you need from us. You know, I can let you know that our original partner to come to the Philippines was UBS, they're backed by a fund called PGM, and they're actively looking for data center sites, and, you know, but the political problems didn't help things, I didn't push the gas with them either, but certainly had many meetings in the beginning of 2025, and they were on board.  They had two failed projects in Japan and Korea, they couldn't get permits, and so, you know, and Malaysia is off-limits.  I don't know if you know what's happening in Malaysia. Building in Malaysia is off-limits, building in Singapore is off-limits, building in Vietnam is off-limits.  They all have export restrictions for GPUs. So, you know, realistically, you have three countries to service a... ... A AI compute, Japan, Korea, and, and Philippines, that not It's part of the geopolitical security considerations.

1:20:12 - JEH SMART
  Yeah. The U.S. is actually pouring in about 5 billion USD here in the next two, three years just to beef up the security.  So they also don't see the Philippines as a threat. That's why we're not in the export restriction list.

1:20:32 - Tim
  That's right. Right. And that's huge. I can't tell you how huge that is for us.

1:20:37 - JEH SMART
  you know.

1:20:38 - Tim
  Yeah.

1:20:38 - JEH SMART
  Yeah, I understand. Well, you know, because that's one of my, well, in my former life, that was my work.  So I'm very much involved in, you know, geosecurity issues. Wow. Okay. I've been looking at the dynamics between Uh, .  The Philippines, China, Japan, and the U.S. for the better part of two decades.

1:21:06 - Tim
  Great. Then you know the situation. You can't build a data center in Japan right now. They're very strict with the permitting.  And the land, you know, even though the dollar is pretty strong there, the land cost doesn't make sense. The topography doesn't make sense.

1:21:22 - JEH SMART
  There's earthquakes there.

1:21:24 - Tim
  Yeah.

1:21:25 - JEH SMART
  So Japan is really not that bad.

1:21:27 - Tim
  Yeah.

1:21:28 - JEH SMART
  So if you're wondering why, why the heck is Tim focusing on Philippines, now you know. Yeah.

1:21:33 - Tim
  This is actually, you know, a good case study for what we're trying to do. And I've, I've been looking at Philippines for two years now when no one has, because I knew Japan was out.  Korea was out. All of Southeast Asia was doing dirty business with China, China, knew they were going to be out.  And, and, you know, now it's coming to fruition.

1:21:56 - JEH SMART
  Yeah. So we'll get back to you, Tim. Um, Jonet, uh, let's have a, uh, let's have a call tomorrow.

1:22:05 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Yes, yes. Okay.

1:22:07 - JEH SMART
  So we're gonna line our horses. Okay.

1:22:10 - Tim
  Okay.

1:22:11 - JEH SMART
  Thank you, Tim.

1:22:12 - Tim
  Thank you, Tim.

1:22:13 - Metro Pacific - Jonet Sanalila
  Thank you, everybody.

1:22:14 - JEH SMART
  Thank you, everybody. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.